README.md, before:

<div class="filament-hidden">

![FilaKit](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jeffersongoncalves/filakitv4/4.x/art/jeffersongoncalves-filakitv4.png)

</div>

# FilaKit Start Kit Filament 4.x and Laravel 12.x

## About FilaKit

FilaKit is a robust starter kit built on Laravel 12.x and Filament 4.x, designed to accelerate the development of modern
web applications with a ready-to-use multi-panel structure.

## Features

- **Laravel 12.x** - The latest version of the most elegant PHP framework
- **Filament 4.x** - Powerful and flexible admin framework
- **Multi-Panel Structure** - Includes three pre-configured panels:
    - Admin Panel (`/admin`) - For system administrators
    - App Panel (`/app`) - For authenticated application users
    - Public Panel (frontend interface) - For visitors
- **Environment Configuration** - Centralized configuration through the `config/filakit.php` file

## System Requirements

- PHP 8.2 or higher
- Composer
- Node.js and PNPM

## Installation

Clone the repository
``` bash
laravel new my-app --using=jeffersongoncalves/filakitv4 --database=mysql
```

###  Easy Installation

FilaKit can be easily installed using the following command:

```bash
php install.php
```

This command automates the installation process by:
- Installing Composer dependencies
- Setting up the environment file
- Generating application key
- Setting up the database
- Running migrations
- Installing Node.js dependencies
- Building assets
- Configuring Herd (if used)

### Manual Installation

Install JavaScript dependencies
``` bash
pnpm install
```
Install Composer dependencies
``` bash
composer install
```
Set up environment
``` bash
cp .env.example .env
php artisan key:generate
```

Configure your database in the .env file

Run migrations
``` bash
php artisan migrate
```
Run the server
``` bash
php artisan serve
```

## Installation with Docker

Clone the repository
```bash
laravel new my-app --using=jeffersongoncalves/filakitv4 --database=mysql
```

Move into the project directory
```bash
cd my-app
```

Install Composer dependencies
```bash
composer install
```

Set up environment
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Configuring custom ports may be necessary if you have other services running on the same ports.

```bash
# Application Port (ex: 8080)
APP_PORT=8080

# MySQL Port (ex: 3306)
FORWARD_DB_PORT=3306

# Redis Port (ex: 6379)
FORWARD_REDIS_PORT=6379

# Mailpit Port (ex: 1025)
FORWARD_MAILPIT_PORT=1025
```

Start the Sail containers
```bash
./vendor/bin/sail up -d
```
You won’t need to run `php artisan serve`, as Laravel Sail automatically handles the development server within the container.

Attach to the application container
```bash
./vendor/bin/sail shell
```

Generate the application key
```bash
php artisan key:generate
```

Install JavaScript dependencies
```bash
pnpm install
```

## Authentication Structure

FilaKit comes pre-configured with a custom authentication system that supports different types of users:

- `Admin` - For administrative panel access
- `User` - For application panel access

## Development

``` bash
# Run the development server with logs, queues and asset compilation
composer dev

# Or run each component separately
php artisan serve
php artisan queue:listen --tries=1
pnpm run dev
```

## Customization

### Panel Configuration

Panels can be customized through their respective providers:

- `app/Providers/Filament/AdminPanelProvider.php`
- `app/Providers/Filament/AppPanelProvider.php`
- `app/Providers/Filament/PublicPanelProvider.php`

Alternatively, these settings are also consolidated in the `config/filakit.php` file for easier management.

### Themes and Colors

Each panel can have its own color scheme, which can be easily modified in the corresponding Provider files or in the
`filakit.php` configuration file.

### Configuration File

The `config/filakit.php` file centralizes the configuration of the starter kit, including:

- Panel routes
- Middleware for each panel
- Branding options (logo, colors)
- Authentication guards

## User Profile — joaopaulolndev/filament-edit-profile

This project already comes with the Filament Edit Profile plugin integrated for the Admin and App panels. It adds a complete profile editing page with avatar, language, theme color, security (tokens, MFA), browser sessions, and email/password change.

- Routes (defaults in this project):
  - Admin: /admin/my-profile
  - App: /app/my-profile
- Navigation: by default, the page does not appear in the menu (shouldRegisterNavigation(false)). If you want to show it in the sidebar menu, change it to true in the panel provider.

Where to configure
- Panel providers
  - Admin: app/Providers/Filament/AdminPanelProvider.php
  - App: app/Providers/Filament/AppPanelProvider.php
  In these files you can adjust:
  - ->slug('my-profile') to change the URL (e.g., 'profile')
  - ->setTitle('My Profile') and ->setNavigationLabel('My Profile')
  - ->setNavigationGroup('Group Profile'), ->setIcon('heroicon-o-user'), ->setSort(10)
  - ->shouldRegisterNavigation(true|false) to show/hide it in the menu
  - Shown forms: ->shouldShowEmailForm(), ->shouldShowLocaleForm([...]), ->shouldShowThemeColorForm(), ->shouldShowSanctumTokens(), ->shouldShowMultiFactorAuthentication(), ->shouldShowBrowserSessionsForm(), ->shouldShowAvatarForm()

- General settings: config/filament-edit-profile.php
  - locales: language options available on the profile page
  - locale_column: column used in your model for language/locale (default: locale)
  - theme_color_column: column for theme color (default: theme_color)
  - avatar_column: avatar column (default: avatar_url)
  - disk: storage disk used for the avatar (default: public)
  - visibility: file visibility (default: public)

Migrations and models
- The required columns are already included in this kit’s default migrations (users and admins): avatar_url, locale and theme_color, using the names defined in config/filament-edit-profile.php.
- The App\Models\User and App\Models\Admin models already read the avatar using the plugin configuration (getFilamentAvatarUrl).

Avatar storage
- Make sure the filesystem disk is configured and that the storage link exists:
  php artisan storage:link
- Adjust the disk and visibility in the config file according to your infrastructure.

Quick access
- Via direct URL: /admin/my-profile or /app/my-profile
- To make it visible in the sidebar navigation, set shouldRegisterNavigation(true) in the respective Provider.

Reference
- Plugin repository: https://github.com/joaopaulolndev/filament-edit-profile

## Resources

FilaKit includes support for:

- User and admin management
- Multi-guard authentication system
- Tailwind CSS integration
- Database queue configuration
- Customizable panel routing and branding

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Credits

Developed by [Jefferson Gonçalves](https://github.com/jeffersongoncalves).

Commit message:

refactor(core): rename FilaKit to EvolutionKit and update all references
Renamed the project and related resources from FilaKit to EvolutionKit for better representation. Updated configuration files, README, and namespace references accordingly.

README.md, after:

<div class="filament-hidden">

![EvolutionKit](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jeffersongoncalves/evolutionkitv4/4.x/art/jeffersongoncalves-evolutionkitv4.png)

</div>

# EvolutionKit Start Kit Filament 4.x and Laravel 12.x

## About EvolutionKit

EvolutionKit is a robust starter kit built on Laravel 12.x and Filament 4.x, designed to accelerate the development of modern
web applications with a ready-to-use multi-panel structure.

## Features

- **Laravel 12.x** - The latest version of the most elegant PHP framework
- **Filament 4.x** - Powerful and flexible admin framework
- **Multi-Panel Structure** - Includes three pre-configured panels:
    - Admin Panel (`/admin`) - For system administrators
    - App Panel (`/app`) - For authenticated application users
    - Public Panel (frontend interface) - For visitors
- **Environment Configuration** - Centralized configuration through the `config/evolutionkit.php` file

## System Requirements

- PHP 8.2 or higher
- Composer
- Node.js and PNPM

## Installation

Clone the repository
``` bash
laravel new my-app --using=jeffersongoncalves/evolutionkitv4 --database=mysql
```

###  Easy Installation

EvolutionKit can be easily installed using the following command:

```bash
php install.php
```

This command automates the installation process by:
- Installing Composer dependencies
- Setting up the environment file
- Generating application key
- Setting up the database
- Running migrations
- Installing Node.js dependencies
- Building assets
- Configuring Herd (if used)

### Manual Installation

Install JavaScript dependencies
``` bash
pnpm install
```
Install Composer dependencies
``` bash
composer install
```
Set up environment
``` bash
cp .env.example .env
php artisan key:generate
```

Configure your database in the .env file

Run migrations
``` bash
php artisan migrate
```
Run the server
``` bash
php artisan serve
```

## Installation with Docker

Clone the repository
```bash
laravel new my-app --using=jeffersongoncalves/evolutionkitv4 --database=mysql
```

Move into the project directory
```bash
cd my-app
```

Install Composer dependencies
```bash
composer install
```

Set up environment
```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Configuring custom ports may be necessary if you have other services running on the same ports.

```bash
# Application Port (ex: 8080)
APP_PORT=8080

# MySQL Port (ex: 3306)
FORWARD_DB_PORT=3306

# Redis Port (ex: 6379)
FORWARD_REDIS_PORT=6379

# Mailpit Port (ex: 1025)
FORWARD_MAILPIT_PORT=1025
```

Start the Sail containers
```bash
./vendor/bin/sail up -d
```
You won’t need to run `php artisan serve`, as Laravel Sail automatically handles the development server within the container.

Attach to the application container
```bash
./vendor/bin/sail shell
```

Generate the application key
```bash
php artisan key:generate
```

Install JavaScript dependencies
```bash
pnpm install
```

## Authentication Structure

EvolutionKit comes pre-configured with a custom authentication system that supports different types of users:

- `Admin` - For administrative panel access
- `User` - For application panel access

## Development

``` bash
# Run the development server with logs, queues and asset compilation
composer dev

# Or run each component separately
php artisan serve
php artisan queue:listen --tries=1
pnpm run dev
```

## Customization

### Panel Configuration

Panels can be customized through their respective providers:

- `app/Providers/Filament/AdminPanelProvider.php`
- `app/Providers/Filament/AppPanelProvider.php`
- `app/Providers/Filament/PublicPanelProvider.php`

Alternatively, these settings are also consolidated in the `config/evolutionkit.php` file for easier management.

### Themes and Colors

Each panel can have its own color scheme, which can be easily modified in the corresponding Provider files or in the
`evolutionkit.php` configuration file.

### Configuration File

The `config/evolutionkit.php` file centralizes the configuration of the starter kit, including:

- Panel routes
- Middleware for each panel
- Branding options (logo, colors)
- Authentication guards

## User Profile — joaopaulolndev/filament-edit-profile

This project already comes with the Filament Edit Profile plugin integrated for the Admin and App panels. It adds a complete profile editing page with avatar, language, theme color, security (tokens, MFA), browser sessions, and email/password change.

- Routes (defaults in this project):
  - Admin: /admin/my-profile
  - App: /app/my-profile
- Navigation: by default, the page does not appear in the menu (shouldRegisterNavigation(false)). If you want to show it in the sidebar menu, change it to true in the panel provider.

Where to configure
- Panel providers
  - Admin: app/Providers/Filament/AdminPanelProvider.php
  - App: app/Providers/Filament/AppPanelProvider.php
  In these files you can adjust:
  - ->slug('my-profile') to change the URL (e.g., 'profile')
  - ->setTitle('My Profile') and ->setNavigationLabel('My Profile')
  - ->setNavigationGroup('Group Profile'), ->setIcon('heroicon-o-user'), ->setSort(10)
  - ->shouldRegisterNavigation(true|false) to show/hide it in the menu
  - Shown forms: ->shouldShowEmailForm(), ->shouldShowLocaleForm([...]), ->shouldShowThemeColorForm(), ->shouldShowSanctumTokens(), ->shouldShowMultiFactorAuthentication(), ->shouldShowBrowserSessionsForm(), ->shouldShowAvatarForm()

- General settings: config/filament-edit-profile.php
  - locales: language options available on the profile page
  - locale_column: column used in your model for language/locale (default: locale)
  - theme_color_column: column for theme color (default: theme_color)
  - avatar_column: avatar column (default: avatar_url)
  - disk: storage disk used for the avatar (default: public)
  - visibility: file visibility (default: public)

Migrations and models
- The required columns are already included in this kit’s default migrations (users and admins): avatar_url, locale and theme_color, using the names defined in config/filament-edit-profile.php.
- The App\Models\User and App\Models\Admin models already read the avatar using the plugin configuration (getFilamentAvatarUrl).

Avatar storage
- Make sure the filesystem disk is configured and that the storage link exists:
  php artisan storage:link
- Adjust the disk and visibility in the config file according to your infrastructure.

Quick access
- Via direct URL: /admin/my-profile or /app/my-profile
- To make it visible in the sidebar navigation, set shouldRegisterNavigation(true) in the respective Provider.

Reference
- Plugin repository: https://github.com/joaopaulolndev/filament-edit-profile

## Resources

EvolutionKit includes support for:

- User and admin management
- Multi-guard authentication system
- Tailwind CSS integration
- Database queue configuration
- Customizable panel routing and branding

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Credits

Developed by [Jefferson Gonçalves](https://github.com/jeffersongoncalves).
